# Approach-to-the-application-of-Data-Science-and-ML-as-key-tools-for-the-construction-of-public-polic
Abstract—This paper develops the conceptual framework under which the project "Approach to the application of Data Science and ML as key tools for the construction of public policies in Colombia" is based, whose main objective establishes the study and analysis of various socio-economic variables that influence and determine the generation of state policies.  Throughout this article we will develop the state of the art, the problem statement, the background, the justification of the project, as well as the theoretical and methodological framework of the project, giving way to the implementation of the analysis corresponding to the selected data set; which is constituted by data obtained from the following sources: socio-economic information on Colombia updated to 2021 by the World Bank, DANE (Colombian National Department of Statistics), Economic Commission for Latin America (CEPAL), Kaggle Portal as well as by the Colombian government's open data portal.  This analysis will be implemented through data science and Machine learning tools to generate conclusions and proposals that can become a base instrument for the generation of policies that have a real and deep impact on vulnerable populations in Colombia.
1. INTRODUCTION
The high level of inequality in Colombia is a fundamental constraint to economic growth and social progress. The country has one of the highest levels of income inequality in the world; the second highest among 18 countries in Latin America and the Caribbean (LAC), and the highest among all OECD countries. Adult income disparities arise from gaps that open up early in life for high-quality opportunities in child development, education, and health care services. Inequality in access to quality jobs further amplifies these gaps, making Colombia one of the countries where inequalities are most persistent between generations. Long-standing inequality between regions overlaps with significant gaps in well-being between Afro-descendants and indigenous Colombians and the rest of the population. The COVID-19 pandemic has further amplified existing disparities and threatens to have prolonged adverse effects; but this is only one of many potential extreme shocks, including climate change-related shocks, that could substantially widen inequality gaps. At best current tax and transfer policies, at best, have only a modest positive impact on these imbalances, so there is ample potential to improve the redistributive role of fiscal policy in Colombia. Policy reforms in many areas could help chart a more equitable future for the country (World Bank Group, 2021).

2. PROBLEM STATMENT
How can data science and ML tools become a fundamental instruments for the generation of socio-economic policies in Colombia?
